---
title: The Young Republicans (from Fate and Chance)
---





*Young
Republicans*



On
the wings of euphoria after my speech to the hundreds of lobbyists and the
triumph of the “GovPredict business associates,” I flew down the corridor
outside the conference hall, caught up to Donald Rumsfeld. He had just
published “Rumsfeld’s Rules,” a compendium of adages and anecdotes, and he had
talked about some of them as an invited speaker to the conference.

“Mr.
Secretary, we were all privileged to learn about life’s sacramental rules from
one of this generation’s luminaries. On behalf of the Young Republicans of the
University Club of DC, I would like to invite you to meet with our group and
teach us some more.”

“I’d
be delighted. Give your business card to Remley there and she’ll be in touch
with you.”

 

So
his chief of staff got the business card. His chief of staff got the business
card, and an email or two a month for the next six months, as each time, she
wrote with regret, sincere or imagined, that “the Secretary will be unable to
meet with the group.” I tried everything in my arsenal: I read that Rumsfeld
had an interest in the post-Soviet Central Asian republics, so I offered an
introduction to the ambassador from Turkmenistan, an old friend of my father’s
(“the Secretary would appreciate an introduction, but is regrettably unable to
meet with the group”). I suggested that Rumsfeld, twice a CEO,  might want to speak at Wharton and command a
nice honorarium (“the Secretary would be interested in pursuing this opportunity,
but, regrettably, is unable to meet with the group). Appeals to fortifying the
next generation of conservative fighters (“the Secretary takes every
opportunity that his schedule allows to give back to the movement;
regrettably…”). 

 

I
ran into Robert Flock at the Capitol Hill Club. Robert lobbied for the credit
unions lobby. I’m sure he was fairly informed about bank-to-bank overnight
lending regulations, but he had a genius for being in the right place in the
right time. He told me that during committee hearings – that’s when a dozen
members of Congress will conduct a meeting with testimony from a private
citizen, like the CEO of Wells Fargo about banking practices, or with Mark
Zuckerberg about Facebook ad policies – he always sits in the front row,
furthest seat on the right. When the hearing concludes, the congressmen step
down the steps and have to walk past him. He stops the one he needs to talk to,
and they have nowhere to hide. Instead of sitting in his office, he sat in the
plush club chairs, drank diet cokes all day, waited for the right congressman
to walk past, said hello, the congressman would say “come visit with me”
(translated for the northern ear: have a seat with me, son), they’d talk for 5
minutes, and the credit unions would be well taken care of in the next bill to
be voted on. 

 

Robert
told me how he missed his girlfriend. She had gone out west with her boss,
Wyoming I think, to help her boss write his memoir out on his ranch. I had a
faint glimmer of a memory of a specific former Secretary of Defense with a weak
spot for Wyoming. 

“Any
chance she works for Don Rumsfeld?”

“That
she does. She’s been his chief of staff for a few years now.”

“You
don’t say.”

 

I
told Robert that his girlfriend was the model chief of staff, that she guarded
her boss’s time impeccably, and that I’d be in his grateful debt if he’d
prevail on her to put the Young Republicans on the boss’s schedule.

 

Three
days later: 

“The
Secretary will be in DC two weeks from today and would enjoy spending the
evening with the Young Republicans of the University Club of DC.”

 

The
glad tidings having arrived, I sprang into motion: I called Jeff, I called
Ashton. They agreed to meet with Rumsfeld. On the day of, we met in the U Club
pub and in a spontaneous act of officialdom verbally chartered the Young
Republican Club of the University Club of Washington, DC, the presidency,
vice-presidency, and secretariat of the most reverend society going to the
three of us. The membership was capped at 3.

 

The
Secretary arrived, still sinewy and lithe at 84, ordered an Old Fashioned and
settled at the high-top between us three. He held court for two hours and
clearly enjoyed himself, generously dispensing anecdote after anecdote. He
genuinely looked rueful when recounting the time he ran with the bulls in
Pamplona as a young man. He’d flown planes in the Navy, but that was when he
felt closest the breath of death, and told us to take only calculated risks in
life. He told the intimate story of the evening in the hotel after President
Ford (Rumsfeld was his chief of staff) famously slipped down the staircase
descending from the plane. “Instead of blaming the techs for not mopping off
the floor or the cameramen for not erasing the footage, he looked at me like a
teenager and said ‘Gosh, Rummy, I’m such an idiot.’”). The three of us young
Republicans were a bit tongue-tied. Rumsfeld was a man like us, hewn of flesh
and sinew like us, but he had turned the needle of history, more than once, and
seen it turned many times over, and that inspired awe.

 

The
evening had to end, he took his leave, the three of us continued to quietly
gape in wonder, and officially disbanded the Young Republican Club of the
University Club of DC, whose life was brief and storied.
